Now that you've explored
the work required to adapt and
align large language models to your tasks,
let's talk about the things you'll have to
consider to integrate your
model into applications.
There are a number of important
questions to ask at this stage.
The first set is related to how your
LLM will function in deployment.
So how fast do you need your
model to generate completions?
What compute budget do you have available?
And are you willing to trade
off model performance for
improved inference speed or lower storage?
The second set of questions is
tied to additional resources
that your model may need.
Do you intend for your model to interact
with external data or other applications?
And if so,
how will you connect to those resources?
Lastly, there's the question of
how your model will be consumed.
What will the intended application or
API interface that your model will
be consumed through look like?
Let's start by exploring a few methods
that can be used to optimize your model
before deploying it for inference.
While we could dedicate several lessons
to this topic, the aim of this section
is to offer you an introduction to the
most important optimization techniques.
Large language models present inference
challenges in terms of computing and
storage requirements, as well as ensuring
low latency for consuming applications.
These challenges persist whether you're
deploying on premises or to the cloud, and
become even more of an issue
when deploying to edge devices.
One of the primary ways to
improve application performance
is to reduce the size of the LLM.
This can allow for quicker loading of the
model, which reduces inference latency.
However, the challenge is to reduce the
size of the model while still maintaining
model performance.
Some techniques work better than
others for generative models, and
there are tradeoffs between accuracy and
performance.
You'll learn about three
techniques in this section.
Distillation uses a larger model,
the teacher model,
to train a smaller model,
the student model.
You then use the smaller model for
inference to lower your storage and
compute budget.
Similar to quantization aware training,
post training quantization
transforms a model's weights to
a lower precision representation,
such as a 16- bit floating point or
eight bit integer.
As you learned in week one of the course,
this reduces the memory
footprint of your model.
The third technique, Model Pruning,
removes redundant model
parameters that contribute little
to the model's performance.
Let's talk through each of
these options in more detail.
Model Distillation is
a technique that focuses on
having a larger teacher model
train a smaller student model.
The student model learns to statistically
mimic the behavior of the teacher model,
either just in the final prediction layer
or in the model's hidden layers as well.
You'll focus on the first option here.
You start with your fine tune
LLM as your teacher model and
create a smaller LLM for
your student model.
You freeze the teacher model's weights and
use it to generate completions for
your training data.
At the same time,
you generate completions for
the training data using
your student model.
The knowledge distillation between
teacher and student model is achieved
by minimizing a loss function
called the distillation loss.
To calculate this loss, distillation
uses the probability distribution over
tokens that is produced by
the teacher model's softmax layer.
Now, the teacher model is already
fine tuned on the training data.
So the probability distribution likely
closely matches the ground truth data and
won't have much variation in tokens.
That's why Distillation
applies a little trick adding
a temperature parameter
to the softmax function.
As you learned in lesson one,
a higher temperature increases
the creativity of the language
the model generates.
With a temperature
parameter greater than one,
the probability distribution becomes
broader and less strongly peaked.
This softer distribution provides
you with a set of tokens that
are similar to the ground truth tokens.
In the context of Distillation, the
teacher model's output is often referred
to as soft labels and the student
model's predictions as soft predictions.
In parallel, you train the student model
to generate the correct predictions
based on your ground truth training data.
Here, you don't vary
the temperature setting and
instead use the standard softmax function.
Distillation refers to the student model
outputs as the hard predictions and
hard labels.
The loss between these
two is the student loss.
The combined distillation and student
losses are used to update the weights
of the student model via back propagation.
The key benefit of distillation methods
is that the smaller student model
can be used for inference in deployment
instead of the teacher model.
In practice, distillation is not as
effective for generative decoder models.
It's typically more effective for
encoder only models,
such as Burt that have a lot
of representation redundancy.
Note that with Distillation,
you're training a second,
smaller model to use during inference.
You aren't reducing the model size
of the initial LLM in any way.
Let's have a look at the next model
optimization technique that actually
reduces the size of your LLM.
You were introduced to the second method,
quantization,
back in week one in
the context of training.
Specifically Quantization Aware Training,
or QAT for short.
However, after a model is trained, you
can perform post training quantization,
or PTQ for short to optimize it for
deployment.
PTQ transforms a model's weights to
a lower precision representation,
such as 16-bit floating point or
8-bit integer.
To reduce the model size and
memory footprint,
as well as the compute resources needed
for model serving, quantization can
be applied to just the model weights or
to both weights and activation layers.
In general, quantization approaches
that include the activations can
have a higher impact on model performance.
Quantization also requires an extra
calibration step to statistically
capture the dynamic range of
the original parameter values.
As with other methods, there are tradeoffs
because sometimes quantization
results in a small percentage
reduction in model evaluation metrics.
However, that reduction can often be worth
the cost savings and performance gains.
The last model optimization
technique is pruning.
At a high level, the goal is to reduce
model size for inference by eliminating
weights that are not contributing
much to overall model performance.
These are the weights with values
very close to or equal to zero.
Note that some pruning methods require
full retraining of the model, while
others fall into the category of parameter
efficient fine tuning, such as LoRA.
There are also methods that
focus on post-training Pruning.
In theory, this reduces the size of
the model and improves performance.
In practice, however, there may
not be much impact on the size and
performance if only a small percentage
of the model weights are close to zero.
Quantization, Distillation and
Pruning all aim to reduce model size to
improve model performance during
inference without impacting accuracy.
Optimizing your model for deployment
will help ensure that your application
functions well and provides your users
with the best possible experience sense.